every company big and small is realizing
that
high quality data is a necessity to go
to market
my name is henry shuck i'm the ceo of
zoom info and discoverorg
there's no platform out there that's
brought together
the breadth the depth and the accuracy
of business information the way that we
have business information
is constantly changing
what we've built is this core ai and
machine learning engine
that takes literally millions and
millions of unique sources so that we
can deliver 95
accuracy to our clients
[Applause]
we have data scientists who are embedded
into our go to market motion we're
looking at every single metric and
figuring out
how do we convert that a little bit
better a little bit better a little bit
better
i really want to build a business that
in every single department
whether it's sales or marketing or
product development i want every single
piece of that business to be
literally best in class i think the
culture of continuous improvement at our
company
is a big part of our success we're just
going to
grind this thing out we're going to work
harder we're going to care more
you have to be paranoid when it's good
because i want to make sure that it's
repeatable
i want to make sure that if there's
something that we did last week that
made it the best week ever that we keep
on doing it
whose idea was it to ipo in the middle
of a pandemic anyways
it's not a celebration it's really just
a launching point
for the next thing
so this is a special session first of
all we will try to do some q a so click
on
q a at the bottom if you're watching
this on zoom rather than on
social media clicking there we'll try to
get to some of these questions
and this will be a fun session um
for two reasons first i think as a case
study
zoom info is a super interesting company
we've obviously all used the product
um and i think and i think but when it
when it
ipo'd i was shocked at the scale of the
company right i didn't know there's a
lot there's a lot of vendors i knew it
had broken out
so we were shocked and henry will share
some stories as we went through this
of how folks maybe underestimated him on
the journey right and what it took for
him to build a deck of corn and it's
it's so interesting
to see one of these products that we
know are like oh my god this the scale
of the product and why and why did zoom
info break out and it is a competitive
space and
how does this really work so i think
it's it's super fun and henry pointed
out the company did not raise 11
100 million dollar rounds from sequoia
and andreessen
and had its own sort of path through
private equity and other things and
and in some ways as a company not a
product might have flown under the radar
a little bit
until it kind of exploded this year so a
lot of interesting things and henry
asked what he could talk about at saster
and he did us a gift
which we're going to go through is he he
laid out his top 10 mistakes getting to
the first 400 million or so in revenue
so i'm gonna ask him about these ten
mistakes and what's great is so many of
these are themes that we've all talked
about
in our community in sastra for years and
i think it's special
to have to to get his time to sit down
quietly and write them
and they're it's so interesting when a
ceo or founder does this because you can
hear their brain in their heart the
number one mistake probably was the
number one piece of scar tissue you have
and then you can just peer peer into
their brain so
so with that let me kick this one off
because this could mean so many things
but mistake number one
being risk-averse in investment outside
of sales a lot of founders might have
the opposite experience but what does
this mean where were you
where did you hold back too much yeah
and i think you could probably replace
sales with like
your area of expertise if you're a
founder
or a ceo and so yeah i felt really tied
into sales i understood how it worked i
did all of the sales for the first
not all the sales but i was on the front
line doing the sales for the first
five years of the company's existence
like i was i had a regular quota
carrying sales rep on top of
uh everything else and so i had so every
time it came to spend the next dollar
i was much more likely to spend it in
sales than really anywhere else in the
business
yeah and when i was thinking about this
this this mistake
i was thinking about like why was it
that i that i wanted to put all the
dollars into
sales and i was much less likely to put
it in marketing or hr
or customer success and really i think
sales was easy for us because you could
see a direct line to rep
you put a dollar in sales you saw it
turn into money
um and everywhere else in the business
that line was less clear so you could
put it in marketing and
do you trust the reports you're getting
about attribution and where the leads
are coming in you could put it in
hr but do you really believe that
they're gonna strategically grow your
talent
and when you think about not making the
investments in all of those other areas
what what you're really telling yourself
is either
you don't trust the people in the
department
and so you're going like i'm not going
to give that money to marketing because
i just don't really
trust that they're going to be able to
execute with those dollars
and that so go fix that don't not make
the investment in marketing because you
don't trust
the execution of the team or the leader
um
if you're not going to make the
investment in product you have to ask
yourself like
why would i not be making that
investment in product and it's probably
because either
you're chasing the wrong things you
don't trust the product leader you don't
think your customers are going to engage
with
that side of the product and so i think
on this one
um we always wanted immediate payoff
and so we never looked to like for the
early portion of the business didn't
look to making investments that had long
term payoff and a lot of that
is because we didn't trust or i didn't
uh
trust the leaders in those organizations
to deliver me the results
that i trust the leaders in sales to
deliver me and so the learning here is
if you don't trust a team and you're not
making an investment in that team
because you don't trust them
you have to fix the underlying issue
there because these investments go a
long way
well that's an interesting point you
took it a slightly different place than
i was expecting i thought you were going
to say
i i trusted sales so i just put with
limited capital i put it where i knew
but
you're really saying i didn't know these
other areas and i'm not sure about the
leaders i hired did you hire the wrong
first generation management team because
you you hadn't done those functional
areas before what was
yeah why are you not able to trust them
did you just make the classic mishires
i i think i made the classic mishires
and then
after i made the classic miss hires like
if i took marketing for example after i
made a classic mishire there
what i convinced myself of was what i
was getting from them was
better than what i would do myself in
the limited time that i would have
focused on marketing
across all of the other things i was
focusing on instead of
am i getting what i would in just a
vacuum what i would expect from a
fantastic marketing organization
and i wasn't ever getting that in the
early days
what i was getting instead was something
better than what i was
able to do on my own and it was just the
wrong lens to look at it through
and what was the first like vp you hired
outside of sales that was your aha
moment that changed the game that moved
the needle where did where how did you
how are we able to change this what was
that
game-changing vp yeah i i hired a great
sales
leader uh revenue ops and now he's our
chief revenue officer
and what you saw when he came in and
you've written about this too jason is
the minute he came in all of we thought
we were really good
and he was immediately making impact all
over like
why aren't we doing this let's do this
and not just like a lot of leaders can
come in and just like
poo poo on everything i can't believe
you guys are doing it this way and
oh it's an embarrassment that we're
doing it this way the great leaders go
hey we're we're missing this opportunity
then they execute against that
opportunity and give you results against
it and they're able to do that over and
over and over and
scale and so when we hired this revenue
operations leader all of a sudden you
could see
like every everything he put his hands
on turned to gold
and you're like okay leadership can
really turn around
really any area of the company yeah one
other one on this i want to
get to mistake number two first but when
you focused on sales because of this
looking back obviously it ended up it's
ended up being an amazing journey but
did you end up with certain types of
product feature gaps and technical debt
because it wasn't an area you were
focused on did you did you miss
some investments in the product in those
first couple years because of this
yeah totally we missed investments in
the product along the way
um we missed investments and building
like a great
engineering team early on and then
i think maybe more so than anything we
missed
investments in on the account management
and customer success side
we were so focused on the sales side
that we didn't invest the same sort of
vigor around talent and training and
onboarding
and just getting the right people and
continuously giving them feedback in the
account management side
and so in the early years of the company
we really struggled from a net retention
um and logo churn perspective and
that was another area where when we
hired somebody good
and you saw those numbers turn yeah it's
just magic and you actually kind of
convinced yourself
at some point like my business is
different you know my business is
different i have smbs my business is
different
you know data and software together are
just more complicated and less sticky
than
other things you just convince yourself
of all of these of you you have this
very special thing
so it can't be best in class and that's
just like not true
you just don't have the right leadership
or structure to get there
that's a really good insight you you
hear that a lot from data focused
companies that high churn's okay
right you hear it from a lot of hr
focused companies that
nps is going to be low because employees
hate using those tools right they hate
doing self-assessment they hate it
and and and that is true probably true
historically right if you went into g2
and look but it
you shouldn't settle for that should you
no and i bet you if you ask
webex users and citrix users how they
felt about their conferencing solution
like early on they might tell you like
oh i hate conferencing
and i think like what you saw zoom
communications do
was make that an enjoyable experience
and that was a big differentiator you
didn't have to settle for low nps scores
in video conferencing
you could be a lot better yeah it's a
super
good insight and um i want to hit the
next number two but
in especially indeed it is so many folks
make so many excuses right it's
ephemeral it's a marketing tool
of course it's going to churn if it if
the asset doesn't perform if the data is
not great
i'll just leave and try another one
right this isn't like salesforce it's
not sticky but don't
your lesson here i think is a profound
challenge to founders which is
don't settle it's not okay you can have
a 30 40 50 60 mps in any field right not
just uh
um okay this one's this one this one
will
is niche but it's interesting not doing
mergers and acquisitions
sooner i don't know that every every
founder would put this as mistake number
two but it's interesting because you put
it you put it second here
yeah so maybe i'll give a little bit of
a lineage
i i bootstrapped the company with my
co-founder in 2007 we put
25 000 on our credit cards and went to
market we built a
really profitable business that had high
margins and we didn't bring in our first
outside capital
until for seven seven years later the
business was already at a 25 million
dollar
uh arr run rate and we're doing that
profitably
and when you have a profitable business
you have the opportunity to do
m a and actually do that m a with uh we
did m a with debt
um and so if you built this growing
profitable business and you're able to
loan against your balance sheet
to go by go out and acquire competitors
in your space or
other technology tokens in your space
along the way like that is absolutely in
my opinion a play you should run
um and we were always kind of late to
this for every
you know our big acquisitions that we
did along the way were a company called
rain king in 2007 uh 2017
and zoom info which we were i founded
the business as a company called
discoverorg we changed the name to zoom
info after that acquisition
we made that zoom info acquisition in
2019 and both of them
we had looks at those businesses a year
or a year and a half before and if we
had done the acquisitions earlier
we would have saved i think 700 million
dollars in
acquisition m a costs um
now it's hard to go oh you know
what a mistake that was it's a mistake
in that like the cost of
capital was higher things ended up
working
great um but part of the reasons why we
didn't do that is
and i think probably a lot of founders
feel this way is
when you're looking at your business
that you're you've grown up inside of
you start to feel like um you're just
like a kid
pretending in a like an adult world like
people who do m a don't feel like 30
year olds who started their companies
and like we just didn't have the
confidence that we could
pull something like that off and so we
were always like a year behind
getting the confidence to be able to
actually do m a
successfully and it just cost us money
along the way
yeah the the first point is interesting
because we we're all we're all kind of
there's been a bunch of talks already at
this event we're all a little bit woke
to the power of
debt in sas if you do it right right
it has to be for leverage it can't be in
lieu of equity on its own
because then you'll spend it and you'll
get into trouble on the service right
but if you're at 25 million in err and
it's predictable
and how much did you borrow to do the
first acquisition
uh like 200 million oh okay
well you did take advantage of the
growth in multiples that we've had over
the last few years right
i did take advantage of the growth in
multiples and
um and we protected equity and
protected equity but you were able to
somewhat confidently say hey i can
service that debt right given
the repeatable cash flows right yeah and
that's that's something that
whether it's just to take a little bit
of debt to hire that extra vp of product
that you wish you'd hired back in the
day or whether it's
to do something we should all if we have
strong metrics strong revenue retention
we should be confident to do this it's
sort of what you're saying be confident
right be confident and do it a year
early because we were gonna you were
gonna get there
right you saw it already in the numbers
at 25 million in error you were going to
get to 100. like the odds of going from
25 to 100 approached
100 at that point right it's just the
resolution was unclear right
yeah and if you're confident about from
an m a perspective if you're confident
that you could put two businesses
together
get synergies out of it grow them faster
make them more efficient in the process
yeah you have even a bigger pot of
uh sort of cash flow to make to service
the debt
and did you it's niche because i want to
hit the next one but but it is
interesting did you feel like
you had to get a discount that like they
had to have a lower multiple than you
as you build up your confidence for m a
is is it hard to pay up versus having to
pay down
i did feel that way just uh
i i don't mind having some room to make
mistakes on execution
along the way and so you know you do
look for
you know today you get some companies
who will tell me like well henry you're
trading at this multiple so why
shouldn't we get that multiple
it's like well we get higher we should
get higher we're growing even faster
because we're more strategic and the
truth is like a lot of
there's a lot of execution risk when you
when you do m
a and you have to be organized and
focused and
um and so leaving you some room to to
um you know slip somewhere is is a
useful
thing to have yeah it's a good lesson
for founders because it
i mean from the other side it's
confusing right why like like
like zoom info is great but whatever
whatever you're trading at you're
growing i don't know what you're growing
that you're public but let's say you're
going 50
40 doesn't matter 60 percent yes but
but but but henry i'm going 80
and so like i deserve 40x arr
because i know i know i know but like
it's not fair and we just draw a line
like and you're
and and founders are in this it's just
you just need to be aware of it right
you just need to be aware of it and um
it's uh in every situations i remember
back in the day when salesforce wanted
to buy us in the beginning
the biggest acquisition they'd done was
16 million at the time
wow and they met with us and they're
like we really want to buy you but like
16 would be too much now you look at
tableau and mulesoft right and then you
look at like jeff lawson at twilio he's
like
i'm not messing around like i'm not
buying an itty bitty mail company i'm
buying the best thing cengrid
yeah and i don't care what a even though
the multiple was a little was a little
off he's like going and it's it's a it's
a
it's a spectrum and companies evolve at
different rates right you were kind of
in the middle i think right you didn't
want to mess around
yeah i didn't i i think the way that
like if i was
you know if i'm thinking in gesture one
of the things that i'm thinking is like
when i bring this asset in
what am i able to do with my with it
when i put it in the product when i give
it access to my go to market team
how much faster can i grow it where are
the synergies from that perspective and
that was always really important
actually that takes us to mistake number
three
which is not appreciating go to market
as a strategic advantage
what does this mean so this means like
when we were doing
first when we were doing m a when we
were growing the business
i never thought of how valuable it was
to have an incredibly efficient go to
market engine
we have and we have a go to market
engine that drives a 10x ltv to cac
it does a 30 day there's a 30 day
average sales cycle it's super efficient
in generating leads and driving them
through the pipeline with
automation um and what i didn't
appreciate was when you look at
a business and you're like what are the
key assets in that business
if you and if you're a founder or you're
a senior executive company and you're
thinking about your business and going
what are the strategic advantages to our
business or uh the strategic levers here
if go to market is just something you
don't even think about
as part of that that's a major mistake
because go to market how you generate
leads and
find new customers and upsell and grow
your customer base
that is a major can be a major strategic
advantage for your business
and there's it's so often that i see
companies where
you have two companies their features
and product are
in parity and one is just running
circles around the other one
and when you see that happening it's
because one figured out go to market
in a more precise more efficient way and
that gives a
gives them an incredible advantage along
the way
but okay so that that's i get that
that's what i've observed but
but what do you mean by leveraging that
you've got two companies right both have
the same product maybe even the slower
growing one is
is better right sometimes that happens
because they're inwardly focused but
one's figured out they're go to market
motion right
but okay if that's you and that's what
you were right but what do you mean how
do you take that to the next level why
was it a mistake
that's the piece i'm missing what what's
the what's the investment
or the action you didn't take here when
you had that advantage so
uh so along the way when we were looking
at acquisitions
especially when we were looking at
acquisitions bolted in both
yeah and when you would look at an
acquisition you would go oh i have an
opportunity to take
what is a company that didn't focus on
go to market
as um as in such a focused way as we did
and if i can take this team of 20
sellers
who are doing 10 million dollars a year
in arr
what if i can take that team and make
them do 20 million dollars by just
bringing in our go to market motion into
them oh on top not not get rid of them
which you would you know
but actually just add your expertise to
their team
take the same talent without training in
tools and people and just leverage up
their
their revenue per lead just increase
their revenue per lead right
increase their revenue per lead from an
m a perspective internally
the way i think about it too is like if
you can make
go to market incredibly efficient
incredibly effective
then that gives you a strategic
advantage to be able to take dollars
that you would be spending there
and spend them in product and spend
spend them in account management and
spend them
in customer success and marketing the
more efficient you make your go to
market motion
the more dollars you have to spend
across the company and i never really
i actually when people would tell people
would say like hey
zoom info is a sales first company and
i'd be like no
like no we're a product first company
we're a customer first company i
hated hearing that uh and it took a
while to do that
that's okay like that is a strategic
advantage of the business we shouldn't
be embarrassed of it there's something
really interesting you said
which i think goes against some typical
twitter advice
which is that if you have an efficient
go-to-market
engine right the classic advice from vcs
and others is pour gasoline on the fire
right if you have an efficient
if you have 50 great reps higher 500
right go go raise 200 million and you're
saying an insight which is what i
believe philosophically although i don't
know if it works in the world which is
if you have an efficient engine that
means you can free up resources in other
areas it's
it's a weapon right because if you're
inefficient
you end up having to spend every nickel
in sales and marketing right every
ever it consumes it's not just it
consumes all your oxygen so you're
saying
if you're sales focused but product but
good put the money elsewhere right don't
don't give
in to the fuel and the fire mentality
necessarily yeah and then
and then by the way if you're putting
money elsewhere and you're making those
investments in a smart way
that just should drive your ability to
continue to invest in a disciplined way
inside of your sales organization so if
i take the dollars from that strategic
asset and i put it in other places
and then that's driving reinvest that
should drive reinvestment back into the
sales team
yeah it makes sense so this one we might
have hit and i like the fuel to fire at
the end it's a
it's a good could be the last thread um
we might have hit this a little bit in
the higher in the beginning but what
does this mean hesitation stopped you
going even faster
yes so i think that uh we did kind of
hit this in the beginning but
i think the way that i think about this
was we were always we've always been a
pretty high margin business
but one of the things that we didn't do
was really think through
prescriptively where should the margin
in the business be
and how should we trade how should we
think about growth versus profitability
and what does the market actually um
prefer
here and instead of doing and the reason
why we didn't do that
i think is we had like hesitation
around like trusting where that
investment would go
to change the profile of the business
and so if today were
40 growth and 47
margins then saying like hey in the
future
what does 60 growth and 30
margin look like um it was tough to have
that conversation
along the way because we didn't trust
that the dollars invested downstream
would turn into that result okay so have
been convicted about
making those investments and how it
changes the face of the business
and trusting your ability to put the
next dollar in marketing or put the next
dollar in sales
to have it grow i think we got
comfortable with who we
were and how we were operating the
business and then didn't take
risks on on that type of growth so your
whatever your own version of the rule of
40 is it took you a while to believe it
at a gut level that that would work
right that you can maintain that right
the rule of 40 is like a rule of 80
today
and but um yeah it was hard to it was
hard to
but it's true whether it's 80 like it's
hard i didn't believe that was true i
thought that was a
silly ism right the rule of 40 or 80.
but if you have a well-oiled
machine it is true for a while at least
isn't it yeah absolutely if you have a
well-oiled machine you should be able to
like
continue to invest and continue to grow
in those areas
um and i think we were just not
convicted that the additional dollar
would would net
would net the same return and there's
particularly this moment
where on the sales team you go from you
you start
you have to believe that it really is
bodies in bodies out
assuming quality right and yeah it's
hard it's a tough transition because in
the beginning you're like
linda bob and henry are so good i just
need more of them
and then your sales leader is like no i
need 40 reps and you don't believe it
you don't believe that it's capacity
but you're doing capacity planning for
2021 right now right you know you need
you know the number of reps in 2021 i
think one of the interesting things here
is
um i think a lot of people say you hear
a lot of people when you ask
why is your company successful they say
well it's because of the people
and early in the in the in the early
days of zoom info where
i i got really frustrated with that
answer so i'd be on a honest on a
webinar like this
and the ceo would say hey we're really
successful because of the people and i'd
be like
come on you're really successful because
of the product it's got to be about
like it sounds like a platitude right
you didn't sound like a platitude
totally yeah
but then i found myself often to that
point saying like man
if i had 10 of this guy or 20 of that
guy
or 30 of this woman how much faster
could i grow the business
and that's really just saying like
growth of your business comes down to
the people
like if you can look in your business
and i know everybody
on this call can and say if i had 10
more of him or 10 more of her
how this business would grow
exponentially faster
then you really do believe that talent
drives
your business growth and that's an easy
way to get to the core of what drives it
is to go
if i clone this person 10 times would
the business grow faster if the answer
to that question is
yes for any number of folks in your
organization then you really do believe
talent is the driver to success
that's a good insight if there's someone
i'd say if i had ten of her i
i'm a hundred percent confident then you
gotta find the vp to go find that person
for you right
can't be you going to your first point
because you can't recruit 10 yourself
yeah but go find the vp to do it um
now this one this one is probably a
little more later stage focused i would
imagine mistake
um i think it matters i said investors
here
i think this is if you have a board
this this one applies to you but we all
have bor yeah i mean we all get to point
we're bored yeah so what does this mean
that your voice was important why how
are you not being heard or what what
were you how are you not being
distinctive
it wasn't it was it was more like i
wasn't trying to be heard
um you know you start this business uh
it starts growing you put a board
together and when you get that board
together
like i'm a public school product i went
to public high school i went to public
uh undergrad and grad school and all of
a sudden i have a board and it's filled
with these guys from harvard
and it's intimidating in a way
and they just stroked you a big check
and so you have this feeling
like that when that happens that you
should be deferring to these folks like
they're the smart
smartest people in you right you fall
into this mode almost like it's parental
relationship don't you
i hate it i hate it i will never be that
person but you
you default into the and and they act
that way toward you they treat you
a little bit like their older son don't
they yeah a little bit like your
their their older son and they're
respectful of it but
i think you let yourself fall into that
older sun roll
too because these guys just gave you a
bunch of money
now there's a board they invested in all
of these other businesses you trust them
and they went to the best schools in the
world and now they're sitting in your
conference room at your like little
company
and telling you like hey what about this
what about that
and so i remember after my first board
meeting i grabbed one of my uh
one of the guys on my board and luckily
he was
uh an investor and an operator
and so he had started a business and
grown it he sold it to s
p um and and i said
i said look uh randy his name is randy
when i go look randy like
you just you guys just tell me what to
do and i'll
i'll just go do that like you just tell
me what to do
i'll go do what you want me to do yeah
and he was like whoa
that is not how this should work henry
like yeah this should not work like that
we're not
in the day-to-day the way that you are
we don't understand the inner workings
of the company we're gonna give advice
but it's your advice it's your job to
like listen to that
and then decide what you're going to
decide internally at the business
but don't just like it can't work where
we just tell you what to do when you go
do it like don't
view your board relationship like that i
got you now
yeah yeah this is um this is a super
important mistake
um and uh we've all been through it i i
certainly
i'm not gonna live my life this way now
but uh as
you know especially the first time as a
founder and even the second time
this deferential relationship to your
investors it is um
it can be subtly toxic if you let it go
on for too long it totally can be they
don't know
and they will even many of them will
even encourage it they're used to it
they're used to this slightly imperial
relationship
and today it's almost worse i was
working with a company that you know
because
people write big checks today into early
stage companies right where someone came
in very early
and gave an early start up 50 million
dollars too early
and just started telling them how to
raise the company immediately told them
to go buy competitors at which were they
are not ready for
right immediately told them to hire 50
reps in a different city
in a different city and they did the ceo
was differential because
that was 10 times what he'd ever raised
before and did all of it and what
happened to all those
guess what happened to all those
mistakes they were terrible
right 50 reps in a new city that you've
never met
and hired in 60 days when you're in the
the low
millions ar what's that going to do to
your company right and starting m
a when you don't even have time to hire
the vp when you don't even have a vp
team right
and that's destructive you lose years
right so balancing this is hard but
if your founders don't be too be
respectful but not differential there's
some sort of
ism there isn't there they want to hear
that voice actually yeah they're
good investors but if you don't take the
opportunity to share that voice you just
take what they say and go run doing it
like in that situation jason
the founder has to be able to to go like
whoa
wait a second like i don't have a vp
i've never been
to that city it's far away like how am i
gonna do this it's gonna break all of
this stuff
and so often when i think about the
business today and i get like
uh you know advice from the board i'll
say like i totally get that
i will tell you right now if i go try to
do that now
i just it's not gonna work like for all
of these reasons it's gonna break
i hear you and i think we can get there
over
the next six months or over the next
year and i'll work on getting us there
it's just not for today yeah that's the
answer right anyone listening to this
that's struggling with that right with
sort of an imperial
group of investors that's what you say
right say
you know you can you can yell or argue
but that doesn't accomplish anything if
the point is valid but not today you've
got
people want to hear that they want to
hear that's a good idea but not now like
we're not ready like give me time
right the number of times i've had that
conversation and then
they you know the board will go got it i
totally appreciate that
you should go fix that so that you have
the opportunity to make these types of
investments along the way
but totally get that it's not for today
yeah
so number six thinking you're getting
away with under investing
in management upskilling and hr we might
have touched on this one too on the
hiring of the people but
what was this real mistake where did you
we all under invest but what was that
what
what are the painful memories here from
under investment i have this i have this
i have this really um valuable
experience in that when we acquired zoom
info
it was a company that was in our space
doing something similar
um but doing it in a completely
different motion
and so it's as though like all of the
things you thought
you might do along the way you got like
an open
book case study to your competitor doing
and in this
in this way like we we under-invested
in middle management along the way
especially in our go to market motion
and instead of investing in managers
people to like manage a group of people
and get them motivated and keep them
focused on metrics
we invested in a bunch of automation and
so
instead of like investing in a manager
to manage sales folks we built a lot of
automation so our sales team would never
miss a follow-up would always
you would always uh see what's going on
in their accounts would
be alerted if their account like logged
into a trial and took a bunch of action
we basically automated managerial
functions
and that made for for a you know a high
margin business but then we acquired
zoom info and what you saw was a very
opposite approach
instead of investing a bunch in
automation they invested a bunch of
managers in that go to market motion and
you saw that when you invested in great
managers the outcome
was in a lot of places much greater than
just investing in automation all along
the way
um and they trusted people they hired
good people
they had good managers they created good
structure and so when we went in there
we're like okay well
that works like you can invest in
managerial talent along the way
and it scales the company and you know
at the time we acquired zoom info zoom
info was growing faster than us
um and we're like well this is why
they've took it they've taken a
different approach
invested in management along the way
invested in hr
and strategic hr and upskilling their
employees
and we just invested in automation but
you know combining those two things is
really incredible
but uh i think the learning for me here
is
if you hire great managers you can
outperform
any investment in automation i think
that's a that's a profound takeaway
especially today because so many
founders want to
maximize automation at every level right
not not just an engineering product but
in every level how can i do this through
tools and systems and
how can i run this in notion and do this
in slack and automate it
um but i don't think it's a replacement
i think it's an addition you have to do
both that's where the magic is when you
do the tools and the people then
then you pull ahead right 100 yep but
it's not a crutch it's a good
that's a good challenge all right yeah
this whole the whole discoverorg zoom
info thing renamed the company
um a lot of stuff going on there um
why we changed the name because i think
it's an interesting case study for
it's a big deal to change your name it's
a big deal to change your name the big
deal
it's a big deal now it was made slightly
easier by the fact that discoverorg is
just not a great name
and throughout the years it got messed
up like in every different way possible
but we made the acquisition i remember
being um
being in a meeting with our senior
executives and
it was like okay so should we change the
name and no one wants to tell
me that we should change the name right
no one's like ready to go like
yeah henry that name that you picked
while you're in law school like it sucks
yeah
it doesn't work it's got two different
things going on in it the uppercase oh
it's all very confusing right
so but what i told myself in this
process was look
if it's better for the business i'm
gonna change the name
so just let's convince me that it's
better for the business
or that you know contrarily uh
tell me that keeping the discover org
name is worse for the business because
i'm not gonna be able to live with
that decision like i'll never be able to
live with a good way to put it in
yeah that i put some weird personal
feeling of mine
associated to the name uh ahead of the
success of the company
and so we went out and we did a study
and everything came back that it was
really clear we should change the name
to zoom info it had
much larger brand awareness in the
market it was a better name
so so we switched we switched the name
um
about four months after we made the
acquisition we announced the team were
changing the name and i was pretty sure
actually we were going to keep the
discoverorg name when we started that
process because
discoverorg at the time was the more
premium brand
um people were spending more money
annually on a discover or contract
than they were on a zoom info contract
but the awareness just wasn't even close
um and so we made that decision
and then uh as part of the sort of
putting the two companies together the
big learning for me
is uh or the big learning for me was
culture the culture we had built was
really important
and valuable and i think we went into
the acquisition going like well that
company is growing faster it's doing all
these great things
let's not like upset the apple cart much
here
that's an interesting topic right yeah
yeah and so we just sort of sat back and
let the two organizations kind of have
their own culture
and then after six months or nine months
we're like nope this let's unify this
thing the culture
that we built at discoverorg is a great
culture
and we shouldn't like be embarrassed
about it like you know if you come to
our offices there's no ping pong tables
there's not a game room
it's just not something we believe in we
believe like you're doing important work
and we want you to come in and be
focused on that work
um and zoom info is like ping pong
tables and
uh game rooms and shuffle boards and
the minute i didn't do anything about
that everybody back at discover.org was
like
well what the heck like years of you
telling us we're not that company
and all of a sudden you're okay with it
over there yeah and so it had like
those guys have wine wednesday right
right
so i you know i did it it hurts you both
ways if you don't have a very clear
culture
uh across your company and then once you
have it you should feel really good
about it and convicted about that being
part of your success
but let's just dig in there for one sec
because culture it's a complicated topic
what does it even mean it has so many
so when you decided you needed one
culture right
um but what did you do did you take out
the ping pong tables and the colors or
what is that what is
just give us one or two steps that you
did because easier said than done to
blend two cultures right
easier said than done couple things one
i did
get rid of the ping pong tables and the
shuffleboard thing
but i donated them to a children's chair
charity or a children's
group in the community kind of hard to
get mad at me when i like donate
arcade game to a children's uh like a
boys and girls club outside of boston
um and then and then we
we took people from the discover org
offices
in in uh in bethesda and vancouver
and then we stuck them inside of those
offices and that's more interesting
to manage and once you did that it just
changed
like nearly instantly you saw an uptick
in
uh in asp and acv across the go to
market teams
it molded obviously because they have
the experience right so they brought
that dna
in of the higher acv they brought that
dna in and people saw them succeeding
and went oh
oh i get it that's the way we should do
these things or that they are really
successful when they do it that way
yeah and did was there a little bit of
sadness when the when the when the
when when pac-man went out the door um
that did people watch
how did you manage that little thing we
did it on a weekend
maybe a little bit of sadness but i
think everybody was okay
all right yeah it's it's a change right
it's uh we laugh but it's a big the
people these
these small things people people people
pay attention to them right yeah
all right this one this one almost looks
like something i would see on the wall
at zoom info so i want to know what the
story is the power of positive thinking
everybody
um i'm ending the all hands meeting with
this slide folks
um great job in q2 but this this this
means more than it looks right what is
this mistake
i think this mistake is interesting
because along the way
um if i had a disagreement especially
when you're not in control
if i had a disagreement like with the
board or
um really like at the board level or if
there was something that i wanted to do
that the board wasn't supportive on
yeah you could get into these like
situations where you're like you know
what
you know what i'm just gonna what if i
just leave everybody will be screwed if
i leave
i'll put the keys on the table i'm gonna
leave the keys on the table today yeah
and there's just no guys nothing good
that comes out of like
getting to like letting your mind go to
a place where you're like i know i'm
just gonna leave if they don't trust me
oh i get it yeah and instead of doing
that i think
and i had good i you know i had a good
uh senior vp of revenue and he would
tell me like
well that's not good for anybody so
let's just like kind of like
unpack here what you're like why
you're upset about this or why you're
not getting what you want from it
and uh and then and you don't have to be
a martyr about
just like one little decision that you
guys aren't in total alignment
um and so the positive thinking part
about this is
is i think really important too and i'm
kind of coupling two things in here
not everybody is like well trained to
tell themselves a positive
narrative about what's happening in
front of them yeah and it's really easy
to have some
negative thing happen and then spin
around the drain around that negative
thing
over and over and over and over again
and there are two narratives you can
tell yourself about any situation
and so i work really hard to constantly
tell myself a positive narrative
about the situations that um that i'm in
and uh and that really like helps you
get through i think a lot
and not get focused on the most but
here's a good example
um we're we're having we have a six
month walk up
right after their shares go public and
i'm friends with all of the different
employees
at zoom info and some of my friends will
come over
and they'll like share what their plans
are with their
shares like some don't want to sell
anything forever some want to share
sell some of their shares and then sort
of have a balanced approach after
and and my wife was like one night she
goes she's like well why is that guy
doing that and i was like listen this is
not a thing for me
everybody can choose how they how they
sell their own shares
it has no like it has no um
there's no story around how they feel
about me or how they feel about the
business
everybody's got a unique situation in
how they think about
um how they think about their shares in
the company and i'm not gonna like
impart their decisions on like how they
feel about the company or how they feel
about me as a leader
i just can't do that um and that's a
drain you could spin
right down on um giving yourself a good
narrative along the way is incredibly
important
did you have because we all go through
this feeling until a certain point of
time especially until you have a good
management team of
once in a while thinking i'm going to
put the leave the keys on the table you
don't really do it but it goes through
your mind because you're
you're the vp of sales and marketing and
product yeah and people let you down or
the board yells at you
and you don't really do it but you know
what i could just you guys your
investment would be
gone this is the harder this is the
martyr part of that
this is the murder i've still i still
struggle with that myself um
what does this did you have any and so
you feel that way and sometimes you feel
this way when someone great leaves
yeah you know you feel so bad like you
know i it was so great
doing this with you you know jane or
lori
and like uh yeah how do you any
learnings it's
maybe it's not quite this mistake but
how do you handle when the great ones
have to move on
did you struggle with this have you
gotten zen about it at this scale um
no i haven't gotten about it
um so when the great ones leave it's a
very
like uh you know i spend a lot of time
trying to convince them not to
first yeah um and if that doesn't work
then you know it's just a business and
i'm thinking about like
i remember i had a senior person leave
about a year ago and when he left and
actually i kept him here for like two
years longer than
he had wanted to and he was a single guy
and wanted to go find his wife and
travel the world um and
i spent time making sure the business
was ready for his departure
which was the most important thing
because i think when the great ones
leave one of your biggest issues is like
oh my god what am i gonna do
like they're so important and so once
you take that piece away
it's a lot easier to like focus on
everything else so
things are not in a panic so if
someone's gonna leave i think my first
conversation with them is like
got it let's talk about timeline it
can't be like a week from now or two
weeks
from now for your senior executives
let's have a transition plan here
and let's kind of get to a place where
the business isn't gonna realize
you left and if we can get everybody to
that point
it's just a lot easier to handle those
situations
yep yeah i still get sad when that
happens but it's good
if they have the if you've if the best
ones
with your help sometimes will leave
their replacement behind right
but sometimes you just have to help
right sometimes they don't they don't
see it right
totally so mistake number nine this is
maybe i'm thinking you're going back in
time but it could be today too
which is not having a process around
product releases for too long
it was willy-nilly you didn't have story
points you fell behind
engineering always told you it was
impossible
every release was 90 days late is this
the kind of threat
we're getting into no that's not all of
that happened to me
um that's not this mistake but yes like
engineering told you it was too hard it
was too complicated
and then at some point you just go like
oh wow that thing is really hard
um but around around not having a
process around product releases
you know historically we were very good
at spinning out an
mvp and then we got it out it worked
as an mvp and then we ran off and chased
the next thing and what when you grow
multiple products you didn't finish
multiple products
they were out in the market and our
sales reps were demoing them and
customers were kind of using them and so
building a process around
when you get to maturity you should
still get
mvps out you should just keep the
resources
on that project so that it can go from
mvp to something much much more mature
and uh and we didn't do that for far too
long
and it actually feels really great when
you get this right because you're
releasing products that are like you
know 90
90 plus percent bug free 99 bug free
they've
absolutely thoughtful they get the
nuance and the edge cases
they solve a full suite of problems and
then you keep resources on them
because for the next you know three to
six months
you're taking feedback from customers
and feeding it back into that new
functionality or that new product and
that's super valuable and something we
didn't do along the way
well it's interesting we won't have
enough time to dig deep on this but let
me ask you a follow-up question because
it's it's even more interesting to me
than i think it sounds
even when i was at adobe my brief time
as a vp there i saw this too because at
adobe you have 15 000 employees right
yeah so that you can build anything you
want but when it scales you can't
support it
because you need 10 people to launch a
competitor
there's plenty of great engineers at
adobe so you can launch any product you
want if you give yourself even a year
there's a roadmap you just go copy go
copy zoom info go copy anything and 10
great engineers will do it
but then you need 30 people to support
it and even at adobe
you could never maintain the resource
growth that if it grew
unless it was instantly material right
unless it instantly did
massive amounts of revenue so it sound
what you're saying sounds simple but
it's more nuanced right because this is
a multi-year commitment to something
potentially
it's a multi-year commitment and i think
the other piece around this is
great you launched a product what does
everything else look like what's the go
to market motion look like what's the
sales enablement motion look like what
yeah pricing and packaging look like
you know what is the product marketing
look like and the battle cards look like
and
you know what's the website page for
this and are we clearly messaging it
and so there's this whole area around
product releases where historically
i released a product and i got into
sales all hands and went check this out
this is how it works this is how you
demo it go
and when the organization grows it's
just you can't do it like that
yeah all right mistake number 10
um this could mean a lot of things not
having the right account structure
um whatever this means it's probably
true of everybody but what does this
mean what is not having the right
account strategy
um yeah not having the right account
structure for us meant we took customers
on
and we just spread them across like
account managers
and we were never really thoughtful or
we were thoughtful too late
about uh how do you
look at your accounts or do you segment
enterprise and smb
do you treat them by you know usage
together i see not segmenting early
enough not segmenting cohorting early
enough and the way that hurts you is
every time you spend a little bit more
time here you go oh
you know we really should have done it
this way this way is a way better way
and then you go okay let's do it that
way and that means you're handing
accounts off
kind of like constantly and so someone
builds a relationship with their account
manager
and then three months later you go oh
actually this is your new account
manager because
we did this wasn't the right way to
organize the accounts
um and so being thoughtful about how you
structure accounts and account load and
segments
is important not just because if you get
that right it drives higher retention in
your business
but also because you can you can really
ruin a customer's experience with you
if you're constantly shuffling accounts
yeah it's a good i mean we know that but
it's interesting i hadn't really thought
about it
that way which is when you think when
you think about how to staff as
post sales have a mindset of how can i
make sure that that
that their account manager will will
always be the same right unless
something happens right unless there's
someone quits or leaves but am i
thinking about this the right way am i
am i 100
sure that it won't switch from from
linda to larry right and if you're not
sure
you haven't made the right investments
here right yeah um
and what's your gut i want to make sure
we have a few minutes for our key
takeaways but
when is it i think i have i think i have
a thesis but when is it
when is it not too early to start
segmenting post sales like when when do
you think it's it's not too early when
should you
when do you know you're late uh when do
you know you're late
i think 100 clients is when you should
be really thinking about how your po
your your yeah it's statistically
significant at 100 it's already
segmented out
organically at 100 hasn't it yeah it's
kind of yes it's segmented out
organically
at 100. yeah yeah that's a good i was
going to say five people
because then you have enough to put two
segment if you have one person there's
no point in segmenting isn't it
but 100 is the right number 100 is when
you see the pattern small medium and
large
verticals whatever it is you've got 20
here and 30 here and
50 here and you know 50 30 20 you know
how to allocate your resources right
exactly
okay we got a bonus mistake number 11.
i'm sure there's bonuses 12 to 100 out
there too but
undervaluing communication and messaging
internally and externally yeah we all
make this mistake but what is this what
does this mean
specifically so specifically for me this
means like
getting your message right on any number
of things
can really mean the difference between
success and failure
between getting your team behind you or
not
um that and that goes from everything
from like your sales deck
and your pitch deck to the messaging on
your website but for me
where this this happens most is
internally where i'm trying to get the
team excited about
some direction i'm going and you know at
this level i think like the
someone naive to you is i get i come in
and i go hey do that do that do that and
everybody goes like yup we're gonna go
do that
and it's just like it's way more nuanced
than that it's not like i just go like i
can't just go to my cto and go like do
that
and he goes like yup okay i'm gonna go
do that like i have to
be persuasive about it i have to tie a
story around it i have to explain why
it's important to our business
why it's important to his business and i
have to get people around the idea so
that everybody is convinced that this
direction from a product perspective
or a go-to-market perspective is the
right one and how you message
any of those different directions is
that it really makes the difference
between like everybody being really
excited to run through a wall for you
and like a couple of people getting it
and a couple of people being like y'all
do it it's just like
not it's henry's wrong and so
yeah sorry go ahead and tactically
besides the classic all hands meeting
and now the all zoom meeting or whatever
it is
it this is challenging you you don't
necessarily want to send an email every
single day with with product advice what
what are the hacks or learnings how do
you once you realize you need to
communicate more
internally it took me a while to figure
that out too i'm still learning but what
do you what's what's actionable what
have you done
in the last two years or whatever to
improve things
on big things i write memos and that
might be
that's interesting but i will sit down
and write a memo that goes like here's
the direction i'm going here are the
reasons why
i'll answer the like and i know what the
like
negative pushback to things would be and
so i'm answering those in the memo i'm
laying it all out and then i'm sure what
do you distribute this memo to
so i distribute to vp's and above and
see
basically senior directors and above we
have like a senior management team
and then the executive team and i share
it with everybody yup
that's an interesting one and are they
lengthy or is it like is it almost like
a
a spec in words like here's the vision
here's how we might do it here's what
our goals are
yes they're lengthy they're like you
know
10 to 20 pages oh wow
that's actually that's a good that is a
good tip every time i don't write a spec
for something it fails right even if
it's the smallest thing in the world but
this is next level right this is a
you're writing a business plan almost
for the initiative right i am and then
it also i'll get halfway through some of
those and go like this is a bad idea
this is a bad idea it forces you to do
the work it forces you to do the work
right
objection wow yeah and if i can't answer
that objection well how am i going to
answer in front of my team well
and then i'm just going like that idea
we're going to move to the next thing
all right because we're at the end or
almost over depending on how you defined
it and thank you for all this time
there's you've got four key takeaways
but there's one point related to all
this let me just ask you for
for the founders out there some of the
some of the some of the things you've
said the slides
i feel like one reason you made some of
these mistakes in terms of conservatism
was being bootstrapped
right and when you it is bootstrapped is
not always a lot people on the internet
act like it's a choice oh i'll raise
money or bootstrap it's rarely a choice
yeah yeah yeah you're coming out of law
school you're investing 30 grand in the
business back in the day in 2007 maybe
no one was going to give you 10 million
in a seed round it's probably it's
probably wasn't your choice you probably
didn't turn away
five million uh before a line of code
right so
some of the hesitation i hear here if if
i was i would say
don't beat yourself up too much anyway i
hear bootstrapping scar tissue but
there's overfunded scar tissue too
is is that a threat in here and it yeah
okay
totally yeah that's part of the
evolution i didn't have a choice right
jason like i didn't
i didn't know what i was in columbus
ohio i grew up in los angeles and i went
to
college in las vegas we launched
business in columbus ohio
i knew there were people who gave money
to businesses but i didn't know like how
to go get those dollars
and so what i knew was i could if you
ran a business that was profitable
that felt like a business that you could
continue to run for a long time
and that was the only thing i knew how
to do and so that was the choice and
yeah along the way because of
you know because you have to be so
precise with your investment decisions
um that carries through and at some
point you gotta go like
okay i'm gonna make decisions that are
like
objectively right for the business not
just
and i'm not gonna let my fear about you
know execution
or um you know the unknown
really keep me from making those
decisions
got it so since we're at the very end if
i could beg a favor henry can you read
us your four key takeaways so that the
hundred thousand people on our podcast
will hear them in your voice
because we won't be able to dig into
these four points but let me just hear
you as a mentor give us these four
four takeaways so the first one is look
at the decisions you're scared to make
and evaluate the risk of not making them
and so take like the fear of not making
the decision
out of it and then and then evaluate
what happens if you don't make that
decision
remove the fear from your decisions
remove the fear from your decision
ask yourself why you're risk averse in
certain areas and whether
your decisions are based on fact or fear
and on this one often when you ask
yourself why you're risk averse in a
certain area
you'll get down to you know leadership
issue a product
issue you don't trust execution so get
to the why
of why you won't put the dollars there
consider what trade-offs you're making
you know am i investing in go to market
at the expense of
uh product or engineering or something
else
and and take bigger bets even if they're
long-term and don't have an immediate
payoff
you know along the way we didn't invest
enough in brand awareness and content
creation to have a voice
those were long-term things that would
pay off and we didn't invest in them
upfront
and so we should you know we should have
taken bigger bets along the way here
awesome uh henry this was amazing this
was one of my favorite sessions of all
time these are the
these are the same mistakes we all make
and keep making but i think you've given
us an incredible
set of challenges to just make fewer of
these 11 mistakes right that's the trick
isn't it
just just make a couple fewer and then
watch how much faster you grow
that's right so this this was a 10. i'm
sure everyone is is
quietly applauding in cyberspace during
this global pandemic
but i'm deeply appreciative for the time
as as we all are so thank you so much
thank you jason thank you everybody
[Music]
you